As we said earlier,
while the Giraph paradigm implements BSB,
it must also be pragmatic.
One such point of pragmatism is
the computation of aggregate values.
In the think like a vertex paradigm,
operations local to a vertex can
be performed in parallel, and
each vertex only has to work
with its immediate neighborhood.
This is very useful, but
it isn't sufficient at times.
For example, we need to know and use
the total number of edges in the graph.
This will be computed by adding
edges connected to each vertex, but
once aggregated,
it does not belong to any specific vertex.
So whom does this vertex
send the aggregate to?
Also suppose, a vertex creates some
edges as part of its compute step.
When does this information get sent out?
Let's answer the first question first.
The class in charge of these aggregates
is called the DefaultMasterCompute class.
This class specializes MasterCompute.
How does the DefaultMasterCompute
relate to the basic vertex computation?
We have seen that all vertex programs are
created by first defining a vertex class.
This class has a compute function that
performs like the think like a vertex
logic.
Now let's add to it a basic vertex
function and an aggregate function.
Now this function, for
our example of all the total number
of aggregate edges looks like this.
The name of the function is aggregate.
As you can see in yellow, it just gets
the number of edges off this vertex.
What's a little strange is that the first
argument of this aggregation has
an id of something whose
name is total number edges.
What really happens is as follows.
The defaltMasterCompute class, which
is in charge of this global aggregate
operations, is specialized
by your aggregate class.
This class has an ID, and
the aggregator gets registered with
Giraph's defaultMasterCompute class.
The ID we saw before refers to your
registered aggregator's classes ID.
The MasterCompute class performs
the centralized computation between
supersteps.
This class is initiated
on the master node and
will run every superstep
before the workers do.
Communication with the workers
should be performed via aggregators.
The values of the aggregators
are broadcast to the workers before
the vertex compute is called.
And collected by the master before
the master compute is called.
This means the aggregator values
used by the workers are consistent
with the aggregator values from
the master from the same superstep.
And the aggregator used by
the master are consistent
with the aggregator values from
the workers from the previous superstep.
Now let's go back to the big picture for
a second.
Giraph is a big data software.
Why not implement the Giraph system
with a set of MapReduce jobs?
Too much disk requirement.
No in-memory caching.
Every superstep becomes a job.
So all intermediate steps
are written to files, and
that is not a very scalable solution for
iterative operations.
However, it will be incorrect
to think that Giraph works
only in an in memory process.
It can always have less
memory than it needs.
There are two broad categories of
what's called out-of-core computation.
The first situation occurs when the graph
is really large compared to the capacity
of the cluster it's running on.
Each worker stores the vertices assigned
to it inside a set of partitions.
Inside a partition are a subset of
vertices together with their data.
During a superstep, the worker node
processes multiple partitions
concurrently, one per thread.
If a graph is large, then not all
partitions are stored in memory.
Typically only N partitions
are kept in memory at all times and
the rest of the partitions
are swapped into disk.
The second situation occurs when
the number of messages becomes high.
Normally, vertices are processed
in the order of their IDs.
A large number of messages
is handled by creating
temporary message stores which
are sorted by their destination IDs.
All messages going to the same
vertex are placed together.
To do this, messages are sorted
in memory periodically.
The message store files
are accessed based on
which vertices are being
processed at this moment.
This whole system is managed by
Giraph's out of core message processor.